Good evening Jean-Luc Mélenchon
Good evening
Thank you very much for accepting our invitation
Thanks for inviting me
This is your first interview since the first round of the election
last sunday night, you seemed to have had a hard time accepting the results and your fourth position
No, I waited for the results to be confirmed
because
as you could see, the results ended up being more close than we first thought
and, it is completely normal to wait for confirmed results before commenting them
especially since the three of us(candidates) gathered about seven millions votes each
I personally was 600,000 votes away from reaching the second round
600,000 more votes and we wouldn't be in this situation tonight
We'd have a duel between mister Marcron and Myself
Therefore, I was right to take some time before making a statement
and then
I made a declaration, maybe without realizing the strength of the political force that was gathered behind me, 7 million votes
but most of all, leading in dozens of cities, towns and villages and in the biggest cities of the country
which gives ma as of now
a great responsibility, I cannot be the same man anymore
I now represent this political force and I know that the results of these elections
from the first round or the second round cannot and will not provide any stability for this country
the two candidates left in the race only represent 45% of the voting population
and a massive amount of people abstained from voting again
may I remind you, 10 million people last time!
so, the real political event, the one that will confirm the political future of the country
will be the upcoming parliamentary elections
which is why, I will take part in it myself
and lead this new political force in order to get a majority of the seats in the parliament
before the parliamentary elections, there is a second and you'll have to choose
back in 2002 you didn't hesitate, we heard it, to vote for J.Chirac
yes
why aren't you doing the same this time a round, is Marine LePen different from J.M.LePen?
Yes it' all the same...
So why aren't calling for a vote against her?
Don't worry I'm going to give you a very clear answer
first of all, there is no ambiguity in what I'm saying, I'm not saying...
You're saying you won't tell us who you're voting for
I'm not saying : "neither..nor..."
ok?
I won't vote for Marine LePen, I've always fought against her ideas
and I'm telling everyone listening to me
do not make the horrible mistake of voting for her
because you would throw the country into a chaos that wouldn't end in the foreseeable future
because she would put us into a state of war where everyone would look at each other, wondering who is really french and who isn't
what religion this one or that one has, etc
so, please don't do it
but
since 2002 something has happened, because in 2002 everyone thought it was an accident
but now every single elections is done under the threat of a second round where the far right is present
and they try to scare us and make vote for something we don't wan't
well, let me tell you,
everyone forgot that after the regional elections, I acted the same way
I didn't call for a united vote against them
because this "Republican front" is basically asking people who started a fire to extinguish it
I have nothing in common with the LR party or with the Socialist party
in terms of political goals, therefore
I'm telling everyone to use their intelligence
make sure to know what you have to do, because only you can decide what to do
why am I saying this?
because my own electors have three different intentions, just like during the regional elections
those that will vote for Macron, and I respect their decision
those that want to abstain from voting, I respect them too
and those who want to vote "none of the above"
and my duty is to tell them
no matter what you did
you have me to lean on, me and my movement
and I'm ready to govern this country if we obtain a majority in the parliament
sorry for asking again but, are you ready to vote "none of the above"?
wait
since you're not saying who you'll vote for but you won't vote for LePen
do you plan on voting "none of the above"?
it's my own business and I won't tell you
aren't you afraid of...
aren't you afraid of giving LePen an advantage by encouraging people not to vote?
what's helping Madame LePen is voting for her
wasn't I clear enough?
I said : don't vote for her
I won't do more than that because it would divide my electors
and I'd like to tell Mr. Macron that he shouldn't have talked down to me for asking the members of my movement what we should do next
because instead of trying to convince them, he tried to threaten them into supporting him
first by insulting me, which isn't very clever if you want the votes of my electors...
and secondly by calling them irresponsible
so my duty is to try to convince my friends to act according to their conscience
because let me tell you something
I am certain that among those seven million people
only a small fraction would ever vote for LePen
and I'm telling them : you're making a mistake
and all the others will either not vote, vote "none of the above" or vote for Macron
And I respect their decision
I speak in their name, they don't expect me to tell them what they should do
besides not voting for the far right!
Your silence is quite surprising because Marine LePen
has been using your vocabulary this week
she tried to reach out to your electorate
indeed
and yet you remain silent
doesn't that bother you?
-How stupid do you think the French people are?
Do you think they're incapable of realizing that this is just an act?
That's not the first time this happens, François Hollande did the same thing
He promised to renegotiate the European treaties and stand up to the banks.
He was fluent in Melenchon, no one needed a dictionary to translate
and he was lying, people could tell
but they wanted to get rid of Mr. Sarkozy
this time around, everyone can tell she's copying me
but many journalists and commentators kept repeating we were the same
now it's their job to show the contrary
Now I want to repeat what truly matters
I know for a fact that everything will be decided during the parliamentary elections
So here's what I have to say : I think France will get rid of M. LePen at the second round
but a month from now
We'll get rid of Mr.Macron project for the country
because it would also be a horrible mistake to let him govern
because this man won't do anything other than deeply socially divide this country
but for now we need to move a step at a time
and those who support me must remain together
-will you run for parliament?
-we're thinking about it, thanks for asking
We'll see if I should personally run
is it the best way to lead the fight or is it better to stay behind, like a general on hill?
but if I do run, I'll wait for signals to decide where I should run
Maybe Marseille or Toulouse
as you know in Marseille, my movement is leading
what a beautiful symbol
it was said that this city had surrendered itself to the far right
well it isn't true
so, either Marseille, Toulouse or maybe Lille
there are several cities where I could run
we're discussing it, but what is certain is that
I need to be heard, the game isn't over
Our movement and its allies are running to govern the country
because getting elected president isn't enough, you need a majority in the parliament to govern
-as we said, you have obtained one in every five votes last Sunday
Do you plan on becoming more than a mere MP, do you plan on leading the opposition? Do you see yourself as the new leader of the left?
Considering the new strength of my movement, it is now my role to lead and gather people around me and my project for the country.
Pardon my audacity
but I remained persuaded that, considering how weak the remaining two candidates are
and considering their inability to unite the country,
I can win the parliamentary elections
So yes, I do see myself a the leader of a new coalition that is a majority in this country
-Do you wish to be Macron's prime minister?
-Well he'll have to get used to it!
-So you see yourself in this role.
-I'd like to give him some advice before leaving, because I must at least be somewhat useful in this race...
Instead of insulting me, instead of twisting our arms
why doesn't he, for example, throw us a bone?
Even LePen is trying to talk to my electors...
So why doesn't he?
He could say "I understand you", as he often says
"I give up on my idea to reform the worker's protections code"
"I set it aside"
So you could come to me
Mr.Macron you have to do something!
You can't just ask us to vote for you and support your project
no, we don't agree with you
he's acting irresponsibly
-So  we have understood that you're sending a message to E.Macron tonight. thank you for accepting our invitation.
-thank you